Hi everyone, let's learn together!
Python format strings.
As we learned in Python Variables chapter, we cannot combine strings and numbers like this with the
plus operator because Python will throw an error.
But we can combine strings and number by using f strings or the format method.
F string was introduced in Python 3.6, and is now the preferred way of formatting strings.
To specify a string as an f string, simply put an F in front of the string literal and add a curly
brackets as a placeholder for variables and other operations.
A placeholder can contain variables, operations, functions, and modifiers to format the value.
Let's start by the first example a placeholder which contains a variable.
We define our variable price and we make the price inside the placeholder.
We can also add a modifier.
We add a colon after the variable, followed by illegal formatting type like point to f, which means
fixed point number with two decimals.
A placeholder can contain Python code like math operations.
Here an addition between two integers A placeholder can contain also a function.
We define our function sum and after that we call the function inside the placeholder.
Let's go to PyCharm and execute some code.
Here in the first example, we just said that we cannot concatenate integer and string with the plus
operator because Python will throw an error.
Let's see the result.
Can only concatenate str to s tier, not int.
The solution.
It will be f strings to concatenate a string with an integer.
We define our f string by.
Put an f in front of the string literal.
After that, we add the placeholder and the placeholder can contain variables.
Can contain modifiers, operations, and functions.
Let's execute this example.
The result.
It's like the first example concatenation between integer and string, but with f string, not with
the plus operator.
Like we said, the placeholder can contain a variable.
Can contain a modifier.
Let's execute the code.
We add our variable after the variable.
Illegal formatting.
Type point to f, which means display only two decimals.
The result is the price is $59.
Only two decimals.
The placeholder can contain a math operation like addition or multiplication.
Let's execute this code.
And the result?
It will be like that.
Here we have the result of multiplication between two and the final example.
It will be a function.
We call the function inside the placeholder.
Let's execute the code.
The f string.
It will be your solution to concatenate string and integer.
Remember to put an f in front of the string literal.
After that, inside a placeholder, we can make a variable, a function, a modifiers, and also a mathematical
operations.
And that's it for this video.